Developing an App Depolyment Architecture for Expo Applications

When developing a project any changes that you put up, you want your testers to test those changes and ideally the pipeline that you setup for this should do two things.
Not degrade the DX, what i mean by this is a developer should not put up their time in giving out the changes to the testers, their job should be done after the commit. 
Testers should have easy access to the changes that were made.

So this blog is meant for small teams  and some of the focus in this blog will also be on how we minimze our operational cost on things like CI/CD quotas, EAS quotas 

The App deployment pattern:
Before we start with the pipeline, it is necessary to decide on the pattern we will be following for the app releases and updates now this is important in any project 
but especially in a mobile application because it is much harder to rollback changes that you put up than compared to something like a webapp, so you have to test your app, make sure you dont put up unwanted changes on production before you put up your app on app stores.

The pattern that we are going to be following is to maintain two channels: Staging and Production
Staging is what you use to test out changes, give to testers and Production is for app store releases.
Now there are other deployment patterns, but honestly this one just got the job done for us.
The flow will be like this:
every commit to main goes to the staging channel, you run your tests, send them to testers
when ready, create a release or an OTA on the production channel.
advanatage of this pattern is that pace of production and developement are independent. This means you only do a production release or an ota only when you want to 
and not on every main commit, that happens for the staging channel and you dont end up with shit ton branches on github.

The flow:
    For Staging Flow:
On every commit to main: 
    diff the fingerprint changes of the current commit and the previous commit.
    If the diff includes no changes send an OTA to the staging channel
    If the diff includes changes create a new build in the staging channel

For every Production OTA or release that you want to do the flow is a little different than from the staging.


Main branch will have lots of commits, so you cannot just run the same flows you do for the staging channel in production. what you should do in production is

Implementation:
    Implementing Github Actions:
    








